and introduction to the book of Amos.
Amos, the prophet who wrote the book bearing his name,
describes himself as having been a herdsman,
and one who took care of sycamorphics.
Amos came from the Judean town of Tukoa,
located south of Jerusalem.
Jehovah sent Amos as a prophet primarily to the northern kingdom of Israel.
Amos prophesied sometime within the period from
829 to 804 BCE during the reign of King Jerobo in the Second.
Amos recorded his prophecy by about 804 BCE after he returned to Judah.
He was a contemporary of the prophet's Jonah,
Joel, and Osea. The book of Amos has nine chapters.
Chapter 1 contains judgment messages against a number of surrounding nations.
Chapter 2 records pronouncements against Moab, Judah,
and the northern Ten Tribe Kingdom of Israel.
Chapters 3 to 6 contain a message of judgment against Israel
because of the nation's false religious practices
and stubborn refusal to accept discipline.
Israel has adopted a greedy materialistic lifestyle.
Luxury-loving wives pressure their husbands to defraud the poor and lowly.
Chapters 7 and 8 present a series of impressive visions.
Amos sees an unstoppable locus swarm and then a destructive fire.
Next, a plumb line illustrates how far Israel has deviated from Jehovah's requirements.
Finally, a basket of summer fruit signifies that Israel's end is near.
Did you know? During a meeting of the first century governing body,
James, Jesus' half-brother, quoted from the book of Amos to show that Jehovah
would gather kingdom errors from both Jews and Gentiles.
Chapter 9 includes Jehovah's promise to raise up the booth of David,
referring to the royal line leading to the Messianic Kingdom.
As you read the book of Amos, note how Jehovah uses humble people to do important work.
How those who put faith in material things and ignore God will not prosper.
And how Jehovah foretells the establishment of the Messianic Kingdom.